It becomes extraordinarily political.
It's a very political question.
It's a political question about who does the earth belong to and how do they use it?
Do you have an answer for that?
It is the most fundamental question.
No, of course I don't have an answer.
Nobody's got an answer to that.
An Indian point of view on the Plains,
is that these great plains that they stretch from the center of Montana all the way to Iowa.
The Wonkintonkin, which is their word for God,
set this up for us and there would be buffalo running and we could hunt and it's extraordinarily selfish view i know it's politically correct and people want to support the indians basically what indians are asking for when they bring these arguments forward is
This land is ours, we want it to be Buffalo, we're gonna live on it, and they're talking about a very few thousand people at most, as opposed to how many people could this land support.
It's very easy to get caught up in a romantic Indian point of view, and many people do, and me too.
I'm not immune from this.
But meanwhile you got thousands and thousands and thousands of Europeans that are looking for land.
And who are coming over here and who want land.
And they're going to make farms and they're going to make a living and they're going to make their contribution and they're going to sell their produce and their work as a human being.
And they're human beings just as much as those Indians are.
And whether a Pawnee tribe riding over a piece of land once every 12 months owns that land, or a farmer will come over from the Rhineland owns that land.
Those are difficult questions in morality.
They're obviously not decided by morality.
They're decided by force.
Which is why you study them.
That's exactly why I study them.
And the Indians who held the land when the white men came, held it by force.
There was not exactly a new principle that
The Sioux who had conquered this land are now going to be pushed aside by Custer and the 7th Cavalry as the vanguard of the white men that are coming because the Sioux had taken it by force.
I mean, they had no goddamn ancestral claim in this land.
I'm about ready to turn this goddamn thing off.